this is february of 2021 and i find
myself
unexpectedly having a series of really
productive conversations
with evalian who
ex-nazi valiant
and i feel that she and i happen to get
in touch with each other
and start talking at just the right time
in her life
because the truth is if you look at the
arc of her career on youtube
her very public political career
shall we say it is not susceptible
to the kind of simple treatment as a
morally redeeming fable that we have
seen on ted talks
that we have seen on youtube that we
have seen on the nightly news and even
in the mainstream newspapers
again and again and again does she like
evalian chan i don't know what evalian
chan
is oh you don't know who evalion is well
she's the original she was uh
one of the furthest right girls uh uh
way before i was this far right she was
doing the
um she was talking about hitler and the
jews way before i was and
i think she's a cutie pie and she's a
good girl and she's got a good voice and
i think she's a sweetie
i wonder what this girl's parents are
like i mean are they proud is this what
they wanted do they even know that she
has a youtube channel or
had a youtube channel so two days ago i
asked you guys to ask me questions for
this q a video
and i'm finally getting around to
answering all of them
well not all of them i'm trying to
answer as much as possible
i've gotten so many comments and tweets
since then asking all sorts of stuff
so i'll try to get through a lot of them
let's begin
but even after all that it gets worse
she had an entire video on her channel
about why hitler
wasn't such a bad guy after all she
could be a troll whether or not she's a
troll she's clearly looking for
attention she loves it when people make
hate videos on her and i'm contributing
to that which kind of bothers me a
little bit but so many people
wanted me to do a video on her and i do
think that it's interesting you know
just on a psychological level to see
somebody like this
you look into her eyes you look into her
eyes there's just
something that just isn't
quite there
john smith asks what's my boob size
i actually don't wear bras i don't like
my childhood started out pretty happy
although my school life was never that
good i was always kind of an outcast in
school
later on we started having more
financial problems
i wonder what this girl's parents are
like i mean are they proud is this what
they wanted
and do they even know that she has a
youtube channel or
had a youtube channel i can remember a
fundraiser being done
for a young man who had neo-nazi tattoos
on his
face he wanted to collect donations
to have the tattoos removed after he
woke up one day and realized that all
this neo-nazi propaganda is
nonsense um there is a tale we tell
ourselves again and again
that takes the aggressive
fearsome young man who joins a neo-nazi
skinhead gang
and instead portrays him as the passive
victim of circumstance
that he was just poor and ignorant and
downtrodden and ended up with a bad
group of friends
or that presents the young white man
from the american south who joins the
kkk
as the passive victim of his own
grandparents
racism that it's a hereditary racism
it's a contextual racism
and then we're all eager to present
these stories that
one day these young men happen to have
a pleasant conversation with the black
guy who works at the gas station
or a jewish guy they meet in the airport
and they stop and reflect that this
ideology they've committed themselves to
might just be nonsense after all we we
love this
moral fable because of course it affirms
our own sense of smug superiority
over those people right those people
who would get pulled into far-right
extreme ideology and i would note
there's a very strange silence
on the internet in dealing with anything
similar
for the far left i don't see any morally
uplifting discourse about people who
used to support
joseph stalin who used to support mao
zedong
and how it was they lost their faith in
those extreme
ideologies there's a very very strange
demi-man trying to deal with the
ex-muslim movement people who used to be
radical or mainstream muslims and who
learn to reject
that ideology that sort of beliefs so
not all of these things can be dealt
with
in quite so cavalier way as the
the neo-nazis of the united states of
america and canada
a valiant story doesn't lend itself
to this sort of treatment as a morally
uplifting
fable phase one of her career
she was just another nerd who spent too
much time playing world of warcraft
and had a youtube channel and you know
tried to be
famous and popular and adored you know
and i think you can say again and again
i have it written down here as phase
four
she tried to go back to the kind of
silliness
and innocence of her first flirtation
with internet
fame but you can never go back
right she went back to trying to make
videos criticizing onision or just
talking about you know
controversies in the internet in this
way but phase two was when she rose to
prominence as a semi-satirical
nancy now in saying that her videos at
that time
were satirical i'm not making an excuse
for them
i'm contrasting this to phase three
where she was a deadpan serious
left-wing fascist what happened to her
was instead of having this
morally redeeming realization that
racism is bad and evil and wrong
she went from right-wing extremism to
left-wing extremism and she actually
retained
almost every element of white
nationalist white supremacy
as she went from the far right to the
far left
and she began an overly earnest campaign
to try to recruit
her fellow neo-nazis to recognize that
nazism
really is just a very corrupt form of
socialism
she's in a position now where it's much
much harder for her to dig herself out
of the
pit of public oblique and condemnation
that she's in
because she made that transition because
there were several stages in a row here
in between her smash hit as an
over-the-top
fictional pro-nazi character and the
final phase that we're at now
where she is actually willing to totally
and utterly reject totalitarianism
to realize that racism is bad and evil
and wrong whether it's left-wing or
right-wing
when she's gained some detachment over
the myriad ideologies
that haunted her throughout her teenage
years
i've said before and in a recent video
that neo-nazis are the most
unsympathetic people in the world
i can't ask you to sympathize with her
and i'm not going to
i can't even ask you to reign in or
limit your condemnation
for what it is she chose to do with her
life but if you are burdened
with an accurate memory of your own
teenage years
i think you might be able to imagine
how the peculiar carrot and stick
of internet fame might have tempted you
at one stage to start playing games
with radical politics with extreme
ideologies
just to get attention just to get fame
just to get money even if for every one
person that adores you
there are 10 others or 100 others who
hate and condemn you
and then you might see how something
that started off as satirical
something that started off as a racist
and offensive joke
but a joke nevertheless could then turn
into a deadly
serious sense of political mission
that is in short the way in which a
valiant has
up to this point ruined her own life
and although i don't ask this question
in the interview i think it is a good
question for us to ask ourselves
if you were in her position what would
you do next
what could you do with the rest of your
life